Harry Potter|Fiction|J.K Rowling|Fantasy|Harry Potter is a series of seven children's fantasy novels written by British author J. K. Rowling. The novels chronicle the lives of a young wizard, Harry Potter, and his friends, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger, all of whom are students at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. The main story arc concerns Harry's conflict with Lord Voldemort, a dark wizard who intends to become immortal, overthrow the wizard governing body known as the Ministry of Magic, and subjugate all wizards and non-magical people, known in-universe as Muggles.
The Hobbit|Fiction|J.R.R Tolkien|Fantasy|The Hobbit is set in Middle-earth and follows home-loving Bilbo Baggins, the titular hobbit who joins the wizard Gandalf and the thirteen dwarves of Thorin's Company on a quest to reclaim the dwarves' home and treasure from the dragon Smaug. Bilbo's journey takes him from his peaceful rural surroundings into more sinister territory.
It Ends With Us|Fiction|Colleen Hoover|Romance|The emotional story follows Lily Bloom, a young woman who moves to Boston to start her own business and falls in love with a charming neurosurgeon, Ryle Kincaid. As their passionate romance deepens, Ryle's hidden, abusive side emerges. Lily's internal conflict is further complicated by the unexpected reappearance of Atlas Corrigan, her homeless first love from her past, who becomes a catalyst for her finding the strength to break the generational cycle of trauma.
Sherlock Holmes|Fiction|Arthur Conan Doyle|Mystery|Sherlock Holmes (/ˈʃɜːrlɒk ˈhoʊmz/) is a fictional detective created by British author Arthur Conan Doyle. Referring to himself as a "consulting detective" in his stories, Holmes is known for his proficiency with observation, deduction, forensic science and logical reasoning that borders on the fantastic, which he employs when investigating cases for a wide variety of clients, including Scotland Yard.
Murder on the Orient Express|Fiction|Agatha Christie|Mystery|Murder on the Orient Express is a mystery novel by English writer Agatha Christie featuring the Belgian detective Hercule Poirot. It was first published in the United Kingdom by the Collins Crime Club on 1 January 1934. In the United States, it was published on 28 February 1934, under the title of Murder in the Calais Coach, by Dodd, Mead and Company. The UK edition retailed at seven shillings and sixpence (7/6) and the US edition at $2.
The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo|Fiction|Stieg Larsson|Mystery|The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo (original title in Swedish: Män som hatar kvinnor, lit. 'Men Who Hate Women') is a psychological thriller novel by Swedish author Stieg Larsson. It was published posthumously in 2005, translated into English in 2008, and became an international bestseller.
Gone Girl|Fiction|Gillian Flynn|Mystery|And Then There Were None is a 1939 mystery novel by the English writer Agatha Christie. It is the world's best-selling mystery novel and one of the best-selling books of all time, with more than 100 million copies sold by 2007. It has been adapted numerous times for film, television, radio, theatre, and other media. In 2015, it was named the "World's Favourite Christie" in a global vote organised by the author's estate. The story takes place on an isolated island off the coast of Devon. Ten individuals are accused of past crimes, and are killed one by one according to the lines of a popular rhyme. Christie described the book as the most difficult of her novels to write because of the complexity of the plot and its solution.
The Shining|Fiction|Stephen King|Horror|The Shining centers on Jack Torrance, a struggling writer and recovering alcoholic who accepts a position as the off-season caretaker of the historic Overlook Hotel in the Colorado Rockies. His family accompanies him on this job, including his young son, Danny, who possesses "the shining", an array of psychic abilities that allow the child to glimpse the hotel's horrific true nature. Soon, after a winter storm leaves the family snowbound, the supernatural forces inhabiting the hotel influence Jack's sanity, leaving his wife Wendy and son in grave danger.
IT|Fiction|Stephen King|Horror|The story is told through a nonlinear narrative, alternating between two time periods. It chronicles "the Losers' Club", a group of seven outcast children in the fictional town of Derry, Maine, during the late 1950s. The Losers discover they are being hunted by an ancient, trans-dimensional evil that awakens every 27 years to feed on the town's children. After a battle with the creature, they make a blood oath to return to Derry if It ever resurfaces. Twenty-seven years later, the killings resume, and the now-adult Losers, who have largely forgotten the traumatic events of their childhood, must return to their hometown to confront the monster one last time.
Bird Box|Fiction|Josh Malerman|Horror|Malorie and her sister Shannon live together as roommates in Michigan. International news sources report a series of cases involving people suddenly flying into homicidal and suicidal madness. After becoming pregnant following a one-night stand, Malorie realizes that the phenomenon has reached the United States. The madness seems to start when people see something, believed to be an entity or group of entities, which causes people to develop sudden and violent suicidal tendencies. Not being able to determine the threat, people begin hiding in their homes and covering the windows.
The Da Vincci Code|Fiction|Dan Brown|Thriller|Louvre curator and Priory of Sion grand master Jacques Saunière is fatally shot one night at the museum by an albino Catholic monk named Silas, who is working on behalf of someone he knows only as the Teacher, who wishes to discover the location of the "keystone", an item crucial in the search for the Holy Grail. After Saunière's body is discovered in the pose of the Vitruvian Man by Leonardo da Vinci, the police summon Harvard professor Robert Langdon, who is in town on business. Police captain Bezu Fache tells him that he was summoned to help the police decode the cryptic message Saunière left during the final minutes of his life. The message includes a Fibonacci sequence out of order and an anagram: "O, draconian devil! Oh, lame saint!" Langdon explains to Fache that the pentacle Saunière drew on his chest in his own blood represents an allusion to the goddess and not devil worship, as Fache believes.
The Silent Patient|Fiction|Alex Michaelides|Thriller|The plot of the book focus mainly on Theo Faber, a psychotherapist, and his patient Alicia Berenson. Michaelides describes Theo Faber's traumatic childhood in which Theo is exposed to a violent father and overall neglectful parents. In an attempt to fix and understand himself, Theo takes a degree in psychology and starts working as a therapist. Theo finds the love of his life in Kathy, an American actress who lives in London. Theo feels safe and his relationship means everything to him. While the plot unfolds, it becomes increasingly clear that Kathy is traitorous. The book switches back and forth between narrating Theo's life story, focused especially on his relationship and Alicia's treatment.
The Girl on the Train|Fiction|Paula Hawkins|Thriller|Rachel Watson is a 33-year-old woman with behavioural issues related to her alcoholism. Her drinking has led to the end of her marriage to Tom, who left her for another woman. It has also caused her to lose her job; she frequently binges and has blackouts. Tom has since re-married to Anna Boyd and has a daughter with her, Evie – a situation that fuels Rachel's self-destructive tendencies. Though currently unemployed, Rachel still follows her old routine of taking the train to and from London every day, one at 8:04 in the morning and the other at 5:56 in the evening. This routine is one of her few excuses to leave her apartment, and prevents her roommate, Cathy, from discovering that she is unemployed. The train passes Rachel's old home on Blenheim Road, where Tom, Anna, and Evie now live. From the train, Rachel also watches a couple who live a few houses away from Tom. She idealizes their life (christening them "Jason" and "Jess"), and fantasizes about being friends with them. However, "Jess", whose real name is Megan Hipwell, has a troubled past and a far from perfect life. She has had several lovers, including her therapist, Dr. Kamal Abdic.
Digital Fortress|Fiction|Dan Brown|Thriller|The story is set in 1996. When the United States National Security Agency's (NSA) code-breaking supercomputer TRANSLTR encounters a revolutionary new code, Digital Fortress, that it cannot break, Commander Trevor Strathmore calls in head cryptographer Susan Fletcher to crack it. She is informed by Strathmore that it was written by Ensei Tankado, a former NSA employee who became displeased with the NSA's intrusion into people's private lives. If the NSA doesn't reveal TRANSLTR to the public, Tankado intends to auction the code's algorithm on his website and have his partner, "North Dakota", release it for free if he dies, essentially holding the NSA hostage. Strathmore tells Fletcher that Tankado has in fact died in Seville at the age of 32, of what appears to be a heart attack. Strathmore intends to keep Tankado's death a secret because if Tankado's partner finds out, he will upload the code. The agency is determined to stop Digital Fortress from becoming a threat to national security.
Pride and Prejudice|Fiction|Jane Austen|Romance|In the early 19th century, during the Napoleonic Wars, the Bennet family lives at their Longbourn estate, situated near the small town of Meryton in Hertfordshire, England. Mrs Bennet's greatest desire is to marry off her five daughters to secure their futures. A regiment of militia is encamped outside the town, and the younger Bennet daughters flirt with the officers.
The Notebook|Fiction|Nicholas Sparks|Romance|The novel opens with Noah Calhoun, an old man, reading to a woman in a nursing home. He tells her the following story: Noah, 24, returns from World War II to his town of New Bern, North Carolina. He finishes restoring an antebellum-style house, after his father's death. Meanwhile, Allie, 24, sees the house in the newspaper and decides to pay him a visit. They are meeting, again, after a 7-year separation, which followed their brief but passionate summer romance when her family was visiting the town. They were separated by class, as she was the daughter of a wealthy family, and he worked as a laborer in a lumberyard. Seeing each other brings on a flood of memories and strong emotions in both of them. They have dinner together and talk about their lives and the past. Allie learns that Noah had written letters to her for one year after their breakup. She realizes that her mother hid the letters so that Allie could never receive them and would conclude that Noah had forgotten about her. They talk about what could have happened between them without her mother's interference. At the end of the night, Noah invites Allie to come back the next day and promises her a surprise. She decides to see him again. During this time, her fiancé, Lon, tries to reach her at the hotel. When Allie does not respond to his calls, he begins to worry.
Me Before You|Fiction|Jojo Moyes|Romance|Louisa Clark is hired to be the personal assistant to Will Traynor, a young man who became disabled after an accident. Louisa and Will's relationship starts out rocky due to his bitterness and resentment over being disabled. Things worsen after Will's ex-girlfriend, Alicia, and best friend Rupert reveal that they are getting married. Under Louisa's care, Will gradually becomes more communicative and open-minded as they share experiences together. Louisa notices Will's scarred wrists and later overhears his mother and father discussing how he attempted suicide shortly after his mother, Camilla, refused his request to end his life through Dignitas, a Swiss-based assisted suicide organization. Horrified by his attempt, Camilla promised to honour her son's wish, but only if he agreed to live six more months. Camilla intends to prove that, in time, he will believe his life is worth living.
The Fault in Our Stars|Fiction|John Green|Romance|Hazel Grace Lancaster, a 16-year-old with terminal thyroid cancer, attends a cancer patient support group at her mother's behest.[3] At one meeting, Hazel meets a 17-year-old boy currently in remission named Augustus Waters, whose osteosarcoma caused him to lose his right leg. Augustus is at the meeting to support Isaac, his friend who has eye cancer. Hazel and Augustus strike a bond immediately and agree to read each other's favorite novels. Augustus gives Hazel The Price of Dawn, and Hazel recommends An Imperial Affliction, a novel about a cancer-stricken girl named Anna that parallels Hazel's own experience. After Augustus finishes reading her book, he is frustrated upon learning that the novel ends abruptly without a conclusion, as if Anna had died suddenly. Hazel explains the novel's author, Peter van Houten, retreated to Amsterdam following the novel's publication and has not been heard from since.
Introduction to Python Programming|Textbook|John Zelle|None|Introduction to Python Programming provides a comprehensive foundation in programming concepts and skills, and it is aligned to the scope of most introductory courses. A wide array of scenarios, contexts, and problems reflect programming applications in many disciplines and careers. The offering is suitable for a diverse learner audience, including those pursuing computer science, business, science, social science, statistics, data science, and related areas of study and employment.
Calculus for Beginners|Textbook|Richard Earl|None|Calculus is designed for the typical two- or three-semester general calculus course, incorporating innovative features to enhance student learning. The book guides students through the core concepts of calculus and helps them understand how those concepts apply to their lives and the world around them. Due to the comprehensive nature of the material, we are offering the book in three volumes for flexibility and efficiency. Volume 1 covers functions, limits, derivatives, and integration.
Principles of Physics|Textbook|David Halliday, Robert Resnick, & Jearl Walker|None|Introduction to mechanics, motion, and energy.
A Brief History of Time|Science|Stephen Hawking|None|A Brief History of Time: From the Big Bang to Black Holes is a book on cosmology by the physicist Stephen Hawking, first published in 1988. Hawking writes in non-technical terms about the structure, origin, development and eventual fate of the universe. He talks about basic concepts like space and time, building blocks that make up the universe (such as quarks) and the fundamental forces that govern it (such as gravity). He discusses two theories, general relativity and quantum mechanics that form the foundation of modern physics. Finally, he talks about the search for a unified theory that consistently describes everything in the universe.
The Selfish Gene|Science|Richard Dawkins|None|The Selfish Gene is a 1976 popular science book by Richard Dawkins that espouses the gene-centred view of evolution. It builds upon the thesis of George Christopher Williams's Adaptation and Natural Selection (1966) and W. D. Hamilton's work on kin selection. From the gene-centred view, it follows that the more genes two individuals share, the more sense it makes for them to co-operate. The book introduced the term meme for a unit of cultural evolution analogous to the gene. Memetics has become a subject in its own right in the years since. In popularising Hamilton's ideas, as well as making its own valuable contributions to the field, the book has also stimulated research on human inclusive fitness. The "selfish gene" is a metaphor for the gene-centred view of evolution. As such, the book is not about a particular gene that causes selfish behaviour; in fact, much of it is devoted to explaining the evolution of altruism. Dawkins says of the title that he "can readily see that it might give an inadequate impression of its contents" and in retrospect wishes he had taken Tom Maschler's advice and titled it The Immortal Gene.[2] He laments that “Too many people read it by title only.” In response, he expanded on the evolution of altruism in the BBC documentary Nice Guys Finish First
Cosmos|Science|Carl Sagan|None|Cosmos is a popular science book written by astronomer and Pulitzer Prize-winning author Carl Sagan. It was published in 1980 as a companion piece to the PBS mini-series Cosmos: A Personal Voyage with which it was co-developed and intended to complement. Each of the book's 13 illustrated chapters corresponds to one of the 13 episodes of the television series. Just a few of the ideas explored in Cosmos include the history and mutual development of science and civilization, the nature of the Universe, human and robotic space exploration, the inner workings of the cell and the DNA that controls it, and the dangers and future implications of nuclear war. One of Sagan's main purposes for both the book and the television series was to explain complex scientific ideas in a way that anyone interested in learning can understand. Sagan also believed the television was one of the greatest teaching tools ever invented, so he wished to capitalize on his chance to educate the world
Astrophysics for People in a Hurry|Science|Neil deGrasse Tyson|None|Neil deGrasse Tyson's Astrophysics for People in a Hurry is a popular introduction to the main concepts and issues of modern astrophysics. The author explains the origin and structure of the Universe, the force of gravity, light, dark matter and dark energy, about our place in the Cosmos and how we try to understand its laws. The book is written in a simple and lively language, using vivid analogies. It is intended for a wide range of readers who want to get a general idea of astrophysics without complex formulas and details. The book consists of 12 short chapters, based on essays published in Natural History magazine
On The Origin Of Time|Science|Thomas Hertog|None|The cosmological theory that Hawking developed with his PhD student is that the origin of time is the Big Bang and that the laws of physics do not precede the Big Bang, but were born with it. The main hypothesis of their work is that physics laws evolve with time, at least during the very first moment of the Universe and are not transcendent and immutable at the scale of the birth of our Universe as supposed by the theories of Newton and Einstein. The book's epigraph is "The question of origin hides the origin of the question", a sentence borrowed by Hertog from the Belgian poet François Jacqmin from Liège.
Chemistry Central Science Annotated|Textbook|Theodore L. Brown, H. Eugene LeMay, & Patrick M.|None|The book provides the basis of modern chemistry that every student needs for their professional development and as preparation for more complex chemistry courses. It also offers features that facilitate learning and serve as a guide for students to acquire a conceptual understanding and the skills needed to solve problems. The first five chapters offer a microscopic and phenomenological view of chemistry, while the latter review the chemistry of nonmetals, metals, organic chemistry and biochemistry.
Chemistry, Connections to Our Changing World|Textbook|John W. Hill & Doris K. Kolb|None|The book provides the basis of modern chemistry that every student needs for their professional development and as preparation for more complex chemistry courses. It also offers features that facilitate learning and serve as a guide for students to acquire a conceptual understanding and the skills needed to solve problems. The first five chapters offer a microscopic and phenomenological view of chemistry, while the latter review the chemistry of nonmetals, metals, organic chemistry and biochemistry.
Sapiens|History|Yuval Noah Harari|None|Sapiens: A Brief History of Humankind (Hebrew: קיצור תולדות האנושות, Qitzur Toldot ha-Enoshut) is a 2011 book by the Israeli military historian Yuval Noah Harari, based on a series of lectures he gave at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. It was first published in Hebrew in Israel in 2011, and in English in 2014. The book surveys the history of humankind, beginning in the Stone Age and ending in the 21st century. The account relies on a fusion of the natural sciences with the social sciences.
Guns, Germs, and Steel|History|Jared Diamond|None|Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies (subtitled A Short History of Everybody for the Last 13,000 Years in Britain) is a 1997 transdisciplinary nonfiction book by the American author Jared Diamond. The book attempts to explain why Eurasian and North African civilizations have survived and conquered others, while arguing against the idea that Eurasian hegemony is due to any form of Eurasian intellectual, moral, or inherent genetic superiority
The Diary of a Young Girl|History|Anne Frank|None|The Diary of a Young Girl, commonly referred to as The Diary of Anne Frank, is a book of the writings from the Dutch-language diary kept by Anne Frank while she was in hiding for two years with her family during the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands. The family was apprehended in 1944, and Anne Frank died of typhus in the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp in 1945. Anne's diaries were retrieved by Miep Gies and Bep Voskuijl. Gies gave them to Anne's father, Otto Frank, the family's only survivor, just after the end of World War II in Europe.
The Silk Roads|History|Peter Frankopan|None|The Silk Roads: A New History of the World is a 2015 non-fiction book written by English historian Peter Frankopan, a historian at the University of Oxford. A new abridged edition was illustrated by Neil Packer. The full text is divided into 25 chapters. The author combines the development of the world with the Silk Road.
The Second World War|History|Antony Beevor|None|The Second World War is a 2012 narrative history of World War II by the British historian Antony Beevor. The book starts with the Japanese invasion of Manchuria in 1931, and covers the entire Second World War. It ends with the final surrender of Axis forces.

